Okay, you're describing the program at the...
Now, we would have cabins, we called it. And in each
cabin, we would have quartered about 10 students.
And a volunteer from civil engineering would... A
student would...
be in the cabin and sort of look after the kids and
tell them to knock it off or get the lights out and
this sort of thing. It was kind of GI at first. I
gradually got worked out of that, but we would blow
the bugle calls in this. By the time we got in about
1955, we didn't do that. The civil engineers had a
classroom. Those that didn't want to volunteer
would live in cabins off to themselves. The
geology students, I put them up at the far end.
because they had very little, they had no places
that is formed. We had good food, we had cabins back
out behind the dining hall for the cooks, and it was
pleasant duty for everybody. I had no difficulty
recruiting fine professors. Now, normally
about, what was the total enrollment per six
weeks? Oh, we were limited to about 250 students
total. Did you normally fill up? Oh, yes. So 500 per
summer. Now, that didn't include the CEs and the
geography. Oh, I forgot those. I was going to ask
about what percentage of the entering freshman
class would go to Junction?
I'm a little bit hesitant here because, frankly, I
don't remember too accurately. But I'll tell you a
source for that.
McCandless... The first thing he did when he got to
be assistant dean, he sent a graduate student over
and said, now, Austin, are you going to write that
dissertation on the adjunct, or are you not? And I
said, well, Haskell, Wayne Hall helped me. He
said, Austin, you have a job at this university all
your life. You don't worry about it. Somewhere on
this campus, you're going to be used. But he said,
you're going to pay a penalty. I said, yes, sir, I
understand that. I was very content because
Haskell, I found a chance to do in life what I really
wanted to do. What could be better? I am so
grateful. As you look back on the adjunct, Did you
feel that the youngsters that went there
demonstrated, once they got to the main campus as
full-time students, they demonstrated that
they'd been, that those were... Oh, mechanics
found that they had done markedly better,
markedly better. And it kind of was one of these
things that worked itself out. In a few summers,
say beginning about 55, The better students you
see would apply and get a reservation before, they
always do, you know, that's one reason they're
what they are. So this was not, by and large, after
it got going, these were not the marginal. Oh no,
no, these were the best students. Well, Jeff
Wentworth, I knew that his father, his father and I
worked in the library together. it was kind of
typical of that and you you every once in a while you
will hear someone say I was at the adjunct surely
you have some anecdotes you can share about some
experiences well yes
I think, though, that I would like to think about
that and jot some things down. But we did not have a
discipline talk. Haskell, we, Louie Howe used to
say, Austin, you going to excuse me from the back of
large service tonight? And I'd say, no, Louie, we
wouldn't want to miss you. But I simply had a
meeting the first night of everyone. And I told
them there are two purposes
at coming out here at Six Feet. One purpose is to
learn. The other purpose is to teach. There are no
privileges other than the privilege to learn and
the privilege to teach. And I don't want to see any
sign of privileges. One nut, one summer, stomped
some Coke bottles on the ground. I made him dig them
out and wash them.
We had an old history talk. One little anecdote I
remember that Louie Howard told that they took, in
his English class, they took a break to go, I think,
go get a Coke or something in the middle of the
morning. And as they're walking over there, one of
the kids almost stabbed his foot on a horse
crippler cactus.
When they got back, Louis a sign they were doing in
their English class. He said, all right, I want one
of you, I want each of you to write me a one-page
essay on something that you have learned or
discovered in the last two or three days. This
youngster wrote his essay about having
discovered a new kind of cactus, and this young
man's ear had heard Louis say the word as
W-H-O-R-E-S, crippler. And Louis said that the
facial expression of the youngster when he gave
him the paperback was demonstration that it was
not a prank, that he had misunderstood the word.
Let's see, I'm assuming that few of them, if any,
had cars, so that you didn't worry about their
driving around or anything? Dr. Segrist took care
of that.
We gave them, they had to register their car with
us. But I'm sure they didn't wander around much. Oh
no, oh no. That car had to be back in on the campus in
the place assigned them at 10 o'clock. As far as you
know, was that a self-supporting? that is, it
paid? Well, yes. I know this, that we became pretty
crowded there after about 1959. Dean
Graham was the one that worked this out. What they
did was they borrowed from the red dollar the money
that was needed and they built some additional,
well they built a faculty house and they did some
other things. The facilities were pretty good.
They,
the, The geology students were a little bit of a
problem. That was because I think that they didn't
have formal classes. And they were
upperclassmen. They were upperclassmen. And you
had to do, every once in a while, you had to do
something pretty abrupt to kind of remind them. We
told them very clearly that they were not to take
those cars out on the grass to one of the cabins to
put their gear in. The grass is too precious to me.
Well, the geology, two cars of geology, they paid
no attention. And so when they, I waited until the
evening meal and then I asked them to come by and see
me. I told them I would need their keys. And they
said, what do you mean? I said, I mean that I'm going
to ground you. And furthermore, I'm not only going
to ground you, but I'm going to take your
permission to keep the car on the campus. I said,
now, if you want to park it up there on that road that
runs into it, That's up to you, but you're not going
to bring it on us. And oh man, they began to try every
trick in the world. Well, I thought it over that
night, and I told them the next morning that I think
I'd just make that probation. And so I had to kind of
do that. The geologists were kind of free spirits.
And I've learned over the years, and I mean this in a
kind way, but geologists, they like this he-man
image, you know, tough. Now surely there must be a
student prank or two that you can remember. that
can be put on tape? Oh yes, I can help that. What was
that song they were all singing
that summer? It was a song that,
well, it was a popular song. So we had a speaker
system with the speakers up above the dining hall
typical thing and we would blow taps and that was
just an easy way to say get your lights out. So one
night about three o'clock in the morning This
burst of music sounded. Just tremendous sound.
And it was playing this song. And
there was a young man named Clay. He was the camp
counselor and he was on the... staff of the basic
division. But he needed extra money and he tore out
for the dining hall. He couldn't get in. And the
music was just, oh man, you could hear it in
junctions. Calls were being, I got telephone
calls and we Well, we didn't know what in the
dickens we were going to do. And one of the fellas
said, I bet you can get through the bathroom
window. And we said, oh, well, there's just a
women's bath, a restroom. And I said, well, get in
the window anyway, if you can get inside. So we got
one of the little skinny ones, and we got him in, and
he got in there and turned it off. Did you ever
discover who the culprit was? Well, you know,
Haskell, sometimes it's better to just let
someone know. What is it the blacks say? Leave it
be. Leave it be. Yes, it was something everyone
talked about, but they shot their wad because we
certainly took care of that outlet. And by and
large, was there a good grade performance rate by
Junction students in the courses they took out
there? Yes. We
rarely ever, frankly, had a student fail. I'm
going to make an L. Who were some of the faculty
members that you remember out there with greatest
pride and joy? Well, you know, I had good men. I had
good men. In the English department, I had people
like Mr. Louis Howe. I had Mr.
Criswell, the kids call him
Mama. We had Stanley Archer that died recently. We
had, oh,
Well, in math, we had Hale Perry, who probably was
one of the best supervisors of introductory math.
Bill Perry was his understudy. Perry will tell you
that Hale was something else. We had a Mr. Liles, an
old-fashioned schoolteacher type. We had
this fella from Alabama.
The kids called him Deacon. I have to think about
this. We had excellent people, with an exception
or two. And you didn't have any trouble recruiting
faculty? Oh, no. Back in the 50s, or even 60s,
summer work was... Oh, sure. That's right. That
was a bonus. Oh, yeah. That's right. And I remember
with Louie Howe, people like him went fairly
regularly. We wouldn't open without Louie. About
how many faculty would you have per six weeks'
term? Oh, we would have three in English and three
in history. Wait, you said history? Yes. Uh-huh.
Yeah, pre- Oh, that's right. Treat. Treat was
quite good.
I remember one summer, Treat would hold a help
session after evening meal. And the kids would get
him started. And he's like all of us. If you get in
your discipline, you get started. But they'd give
him a standing ovation when he would come in. And
then, too, when I first became director, I
followed the procedure, and we would have a prof go
through the cabins to help them. But Haskell, that
was creating more distraction. So I changed it
over to a professor in one of the rooms up in the
academic building. administration building.
And that's the way we handled that. But they did not
have to study. I wouldn't want to get into this core
business world. But they had to be quiet. And they
couldn't be out running around in the other areas.
We had no problem with that. And many of the better
students would go up to almost every health
station. They were going to get everything out of
it they could. And the physical education people
were very good. I had people like Palmer, Les
Palmer, Herman Segrist,
Paul Andrews. You know, Paul lived till he was
almost 100. They were good people. And they fit
into the
community well. You know, I had an English prof
that was, what was his name? He was the voice of the
Aggies.
Had this Boston accent.
Well, It will come to us, but I remember, you know
this fella could hardly talk without profanity.
And that worried me, because we were going to a
small community.
And the A&M Mother's Club, invited him to speak to
them on one of the plays. And I thought, oh man, this
is one I'm going to have to play. But you know, I
worried all afternoon while that was held. And
then the president called me and she said, he's
wonderful. I said, She said, yes, we've never had a
more charming, courteous person. And I thought,
thank God. And then I thought, you know, he's smart
enough.
But it was really, it was a great, it was one of the
most pleasant things I've ever done. It
needs to go about 10 seconds. This is now Monday,
May 10, and we're resuming the interview. And
Austin Curley has been trying to summarize in his
thoughts the A&M method, the A&M philosophy, the
A&M technique of relating to students. Please go
ahead. Well, the important characteristic of
Texas A&M College and University has always been
that peculiar but effective relationship
between professors and students.
From the beginning, the academic element of the
university was the deciding factor in what
direction that the college would go. In its early
days, all the way through,
Dean Dean, a distinguished professor that's on
our campus, thinks that is the most remarkable
thing in the world about the relationship of
students with their profs. Now, did you encounter
that as a student? Oh, yes. Oh, yes. Reflect and
reminisce on some examples. Well, one of the
professors that had a great impact on me was Count
Segar. Count Segar was a short man, stocky, short
arms, which he waved vigorously when he was trying
to make a point. And he was indeed of royal birth. He
came out of the central Europe, the area where
there's so much turmoil now, and apparently his
noble family had to leave. How in the world he got
from the East Coast and the Ivy Colleges down to
Texas A&M, I was too modest to ask him. But he was
beloved by students.
He enjoyed students. He took interest in them.
He was not immune from
cutting up with the students sometimes. I
remember one time we were having class and this
student was taking issue with him over something.
And he said, Count, it's right here in this book.
And the Count said, where did you get that book? Oh,
he says, so and so. He said, throw the book out the
window. Well, the old boy did. Out she went. Well,
everyone looked startled, including the Count,
and then we all had a big laugh. At the end of a
course, Count Sigard would have you write a
summary of your reaction to the task. You're free
to write anything that you want to. Then he would
take them up and he would read them aloud to the
class. It was no threat to him. One fellow said,
this is the biggest bunch of bullshit I've ever
heard. Count looked up and said, you know, that may
be true. And of course everyone laughed. But he,
but on the other hand though, you could go to him
with a serious problem and Council Guard was very,
very gracious. Other examples? Other people?
Well, I was very fortunate in the fall of 1938, my
senior year, to get into the class of a Dr. Geddes.
who was the first distinguished professor on our
campus. And he had come down from the east. And he
was indeed a remarkable man. Tall fellow. Family
history of his family in Texas for a long time. And
it was just remarkable. to sit there and listen to
someone with the background that he had. When I
looked at the schedule of classes for the spring
semester of my senior year, he was teaching two
courses. I signed up for both of them. One was oil
and gas lease laws. That didn't bother me. I didn't
know what I'd do with it, but I would get to hear him.
And I talked to him. I visited with him a lot. Well,
we all had. We liked our professors. We didn't
hesitate to attach names to them.
Dr. Gammon was noted as Oster Joe. And that was not
meant in disrespect, but it was related to his
mannerism of clearing his throat. And that was so
remarkable that Dean Dean is trying to write a book
about this. Now, Haskell, I think he needs to think
through that very carefully, because you see,
when we talk about something that happened 50
years ago, we have to ask ourselves that this is a
propitious time for that to come about. But in all
of the history of Texas A&M College and
University, there has been this tight bond And
most of the years that I can attest to, the
professor had a sincere interest in the students.
Now when you were an undergraduate, There were
still lots of faculty living on campus. Oh, yes,
yes. Where the Memorial Student Center is now was
two rows of homes that swept around to the
playground. Then also back up around Walton Hall,
there was a large group. There are people who grew
up on the campus in those halls. I remember when we
got up here in 59, there were still a few of the
houses standing where the coldest parking garage
is now. An English faculty member, Dick,
he bought one of the last ones and moved it down to
South Edge College Station. I don't think anyone
was living in them in 59, but still two or three of
the houses were still there. Did that encourage
closer faculty-student relations? Yes, it did. I
remember the dean of the College of Medicine,
Veterinary Medicine,
he would work late and he would come across the
campus, the Veterinary Medicine building was
right past the old academic building, and Dean
Francis. Dean Francis, small man, but he would
walk right by Hart Hall, go right across the
street, and invariably we would be marching to the
evening meal. Dean Francis made no point, and
there would be frantic halts We let the dean by, and
then we would go on. It was a great thing.
I think that even the ROTC officers caught this
spirit of thing. Well,
it was good. This same spirit I saw in 1952 when I
came back. These professors were interested in
their students. They would volunteer to serve as
faculty advisors. They would work to go over the
test scores with them, help them with schedules,
and all that sort of thing. And it was... To me, it
was such a wonderful thing that in all of the
contributions I could make to bring some current
organization to really things that had taken
place that we were able to do that we couldn't have
before World War II. was well I don't know how it is
now I'm not you know qualified but the it could be
that among other things at school that it is this
spirit and understanding and feeling that makes
our student body like it is what are the let's let's
Try to think philosophical. What are the events?